Joy and appreciation is important. Without joy and appreciation, our practice won't go so well.
Because even we have the nugget teaching of Dzogchen Muhammad, without appreciation and devotion,
our practice becomes almost dry.
Dry, there is no moisture. It's dry. It's like when we drop this seed in the desert, it won't grow.
It will dry up there.
But with that seed, we drop it in some nice field, soil places, or the farmland, the way there is
moisture,
where there is beautiful conditions, then definitely it will break growth.
Similarly, joy and devotion are like fertilizer to grow. We should feel joy.
Joy and appreciation and devotion are really important all the time.
Teaching said, I'm sure, it's going to turn more and get better. But we should, every practitioner,
we begin to the joy and devotion and the raffle and the bodhicapal.
Those all have bought it. And again, to summarize that joy and devotion, devotion, raffle is what?
Essence of raffle is confidence.
Confidence in the Buddha, dharma and sahaja. And both each other is love and compassion, kindness
and thought, kind hearted.
Joyful hearted, compassion and hearted, and appreciation and hearted.
And we have those beautiful qualities. Our practice will become as piece of cake.
It's not difficult. Boring, practice, dragging practice. And looking, "Oh, again I have to do
practice. Oh, I have to do this. Oh, I need to do this."
This comes dragging, but we may be lacking. But this means lacking joy and devotion, and both each
other, or confidence and love.
We have all those beautiful qualities. Then really, it all comes so perfectly. So therefore, in
here, at the beginning here, it's only said, "I bow down, respect and take refuge."
That means also, "I trust, trust and confidence with confidence in joy." Also, sometimes in India,
they use, this is what they call, "surrender." I think. Surrender is also all very nice. Surrender.
We are not going to resist with our ego clakings. We are not going to give the power to the ego,
ego, and happy path.
We are going to give power to the Buddha, to the Dharma, to the Sangha, to the practice. Practice.
I'm not going to resist it. So what they call surrender. Surrender. Surrender. Surrender. It's good
. Surrender.
When it's surrender, that means it's not something we are losing. What is losing? What is a little
bit dimming down?
Don't we know it's ego clinking? Ego. Ego and arrogance. Ego and arrogance. And I like to be in
this way, my way, my way, my style.
"Oh, you don't fit with me. I don't like that." These kind of things we can do, of course, too.
But when we come to the practice, if we start doing this many times, what we become, we are losing
our ground of the practice.
Our Dharma ground is really losing. Therefore, that means who is winning? Ego clinking, happy path.
Happy path, not good happy path, there's two things at the beginning time. Happy path of the
attachment, grasping, clinking,
all those negative emotions, winning, they keep in the upper hand. So therefore, to do this,
respect, appreciation,
trusting. Trusting this all is very important. In fit of the glories, supreme good.
Fit of the glories, it doesn't mean you can also fit. It means you're going to touch to the fit.
Of course, traditionally, ancient time, when they were born to the teacher or to the shrine, they
go to touch to the lowest part of the shrine.
They're not just jumping up to the head of the Buddha, but to put to their head too.
So that means the highest step of our body is touching to the lowest part of the lower spot and
therefore putting to the feet, that too.
But also it means, fit means no arrogance, less arrogance in our mind, kind of deep reverence and
practice, we practice, touching.
And then, traditionally, books, I mean in India, I'm showing you those who've been in India,
they every time, many times when they respect, everybody touch to their feet by endings.
They don't even cover the younger ones, the younger ones touch to the elders' feet.
Feet, that means I respect their knowledge, they experience their guidance, respect.
And that's how the lineage or the tradition fast and keeping a very rich culture and keep that
respect, appreciate.
You learn because that's arrogance. And arrogance is the obstacle, arrogance always on the teaching
.
Teaching says, it's not just the teaching, we can feel that too, I mean, because that's what the
teaching says.
Arrogance is like an iron ball, iron ball, no matter how much water we boil, won't catch water like
this.
And then similarly, when we have the arrogance, no matter how much knowledge you gain from others,
it won't sink.
It just spells out, out, it won't absorb. So therefore, this respect here, for example, bow down to
the lord's feet.
Take that, I take leverage.
And then here it says, I, my followers, and I be blessed so that the realization of the profound
part, they born cooking, cooking.
This, what that actually means, of course we all know, realization may be something, zogchi,
realization, that we are thinking.
It's true, zogchi, realization is realization.
But realization is something we have to think more practically, more tangible way, more what we can
handle, realization.
That realization, this realization, zogchi, realization, start with what we've been discussing.
Yoga, devotion, bodhicata, those are realization.
These are realization.
When we have those realization in heart, zogchi, realization comes so easily.
Mahamud realization comes so easily. For that reason, for that reason, in the teaching said, in the
great Master Saraha said,
and as the author, great master K.T. Baddishya, he wrote ten quotations.
He said, realization comes by accumulating the merit and blessing by the, from the teacher, that
says.
And that blessing from the teacher, accumulating the merit, what that means, we've all been
discussing,
because blessing from the teacher comes with devotions.
When we have to devote, joy and appreciation, accumulating the merit.
Merit is both each other, six part of the method.
Accumulation merit, accumulation merit, that's true, right?
We all, most of you, the worst of merit and accumulation merit.
Both merit have to be targeted.
So those all come targeted, then realization comes.
So that means, for the person, most of us, what is realization?
Joy, devotion, bodhicata, confidence, patience.
And we have those, that is now, our soil is activated, spring is coming.
Definitely the growth will come, realization will come.
This joy and devotion, bodhicata, confidence, all that's in the spring, spring energy of the
realization.
This is the one, that is realization.
Joy and devotion, bodhicata, generation is a genre of realization.
They are realization.
This will lead to full bloom of the realization.
So therefore, we pray, when we join, meditate, this one, we pray.
May I have the joy.
May my joy burn in my heart.
May the loving kindness, compassion burn in my heart.
My devotion burn in the heart.
The confidence, trust burn in my heart.
That is profound realization.
What means, perform here?
Here also, pause here.
Perform.
Perform means, love is evident.
Joy is evident.
Devotion is evident.
That we have to bring.
Present our joy in the devotion, bodhicata, I'm not saying all of you, but maybe a few of us.
Our devotion is maybe shallow.
Joy is shallow.
Loving kindness and compassion may be shallow.
It's not profound enough.
We didn't touch yet the deep of our nature, yet we have to act with it.
When we touch that deep, that is path.
That is the truly path.
We are moving forward inwardly, inwardly, and we are deepening our practices, our meditation.
All that begins really comes, so nice.
So this realization comes quickly in a sense.
When that comes, then the zogchi realization, what we're talking all the time.
The Muhammad realization, what we're talking all, looking forward, is just there.
It's not far away.
Far away.
It becomes so surprising, and that it becomes so surprising, so beautiful, so unexpected many times
it comes.
And then we read the life story of those great masters who got those realizations.
When long process, kind of long process, difficulty, looks like difficulty, but their courage and
commitment,
the immense of their joy and devotion, unyielding, unflailing.
The devotion continues to keep up that, with that, and then surprisingly the realization comes so
instantly.
With this simple technique, simple method, even don't really need anything that looks like just so
ridiculously.
They got the realization, how that can be that kind.
That happened, because of this, what they're deepening, joy, devotion, bodhicata, competence.
That's what they're deepening, and then they burst their realization and become as like sky yogi.
And those, that merge to the Buddha, Sangha, the Buddha, all the Buddha, Shatamuni, Gaurupayama,
Sangha.
All that, just the long lasting looking, longing of their realization, what that just happened, in
just that instant.
That all depended, all started with this Bhutani journey of joy, devotion, bodhicata, and
confidence, and their commitment.
This is, you read the books that so many thousands now, you read that.
Then they become totally fearless, totally enlightened, yet so simple and so beautiful.
And that is the one who comes.
So therefore, when we start with this, this, then the big realization of the profound father,
then quickly realization comes, with all the slight arrow, slight arrow.
This slight arrow means then no arrows, no mistakes.
That started with the realization, no mistake.
There's many times, teacher, papa said, "Oh, I've got so many realizations."
"I've heard that so many times," Prabhupada said.
"I've got so many realizations, but I don't know what is this."
He really said that.
"I've got so many realizations, but I don't know."
That must be where I was called.
"Skeptical realization" and "dartful realization."
"Dartful realization" and "skeptical realization," also, "I don't know what is that."
You mean, they don't know, and I don't know.
I mean, it's true, I don't know. It's really that.
But true realization comes, no need doubt, no need "skeptical."
This brilliant sun, arising in the sky, free from clouds, free from the mists,
or these dusters, or pollutions, it's just a brilliant.
You feel happy, you feel confidence, and you feel glorious.
And yet, you feel so gentle and peaceful, love and kindness.
And as the Buddha Shakyamuni, as the Gurbia Masambhava,
as those great monsters that we did and we saw, that's what it is, the realization.
And to start with that, to have that un-dartful realization,
un-skeptical realization, un-error realization, then start with joy,
devotion, both each other, then we move forward with that.
That is just a way to do it.
We don't have to be skeptical with joy.
We don't have to be skeptical with the devotions.
We don't have to be skeptical with love and kindness and compassion.
We don't have to.
As they are building, it's true, it's so special, it's beautiful.
And that same way, realization will break.
Realization will become so beautiful and so special.
That's what he said.
So this, you see, you don't say sustainability, and this and that.
So then we'll go this, then what? Don't chitat. Don't chitat.
Chitat dalat ditas, that's the way to say it.
And it's a way to say zen sasih.
Zen sasih means like portals.
Portals that have now, like portals.
Portals.
Portals that have no fears.
You don't have to be scared with this.
No fears.
No fears to anything.
No, you don't have to be happy with something.
No hope.
No fears.
Or no expectations.
No loneliness.
No game.
You got everything.
And therefore, in the zoki chitin,
I'm sure we have been hit from kijipartasya namuchi,
and as well as, when I said this, poor confidence.
Poor fellas and stits.
When you got high, it's the realization.
When you reach the zoki status.
And the chitin said, when you reach that realization status,
even you see the millions of Buddhas right in front of you,
there's nothing more to ask.
Nothing more to resume.
You got everything.
You got this revolt.
Even your sorrow with millions of the enemies,
there's nothing to fear.
There's nothing to fear.
That is like chitada, chitada.
There's poor, poor performance to achieve this.
This is then, you discover our old inner nature,
naked, fresh, without any cover-up.
That is then said by the blessings.